Outgoing requests guide v1 (#9866)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/src/main/server/outgoinghttp.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Configure outgoing HTTP requests"

> summary="How to configure Keycloak's HTTP client for outgoing requests."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary="How to configure the HTTP client used for outgoing requests."
```

includedOptions="">

Keycloak often needs to make requests to the applications and services it secures. Keycloak manages these outgoing connections using an HTTP client. This guide shows how to configure the client, it's connection pool, proxy environment settings, timeouts and more.

== Usage
To configure Keycloak's outgoing Http client, use:

> <@kc.start parameters="--spi-connections-http-client-default-<configurationoption>=<value>"/>

Reviewer: This can be removed as we don't have any other built-in clients. Using a custom provider should be part of the developer guide if/when we want to support that.

Author: This is just meant as a general usage instruction for the options under the next headline, so I don't quite get what to remove here? All the options below need `--spi-connections-http-client-default-` as prefix. This is not beautiful, but it is as it is right now. So, why remove?

Please see <<Outgoing Http Client Configuration Options>> for the available configuration options.

== Outgoing Http Client Configuration Options

The Http client Keycloak uses for outgoing communication is highly configurable. The available options are:

*establish-connection-timeout-millis*::

> Maximum time in milliseconds until a connection approach times out. Default: Not set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maximum time in milliseconds until a establishing a connection times out. Default: Not set.
```

Reviewer 2: Hi,
Thanks for updating this part of documentation. :+1: 
Last week we had a production problem while calling (asynchronously) an external API and we noticed in thread dumps that problem was more in establishing connection (handshake) rather than waiting for response. 

```
- locked <0x00000006659d21b0> (a sun.security.ssl.TransportContext)
at org.apache.http.conn.ssl.SSLConnectionSocketFactory.createLayeredSocket(SSLConnectionSocketFactory.java:436)
```

So we were wondering : is there any reason that `establish-connection-timeout-millis` does not have a default value, like a few seconds ? 
No default value  (-1)  means that establishing connection can last forever, don't you think that it might cause some http calls to wait forever if a network problem occurs _before connection has been established_ ?

Author: @daviddelannoy sorry, this comment slipped through. would you mind opening a discussion or an issue for this? I'm with you this is not a good default, but I don't have all the context so might be worth to ask first why it's done that way. Would also be nice if you could suggest a better default :)

*socket-timeout-millis*::
Maximum time of inactivity between two data packets until a socket connection times out, in milliseconds. Default: 5000ms

*connection-pool-size*::
Size of the connection pool for outgoing connections. Default: 128.

*max-pooled-per-route*::
How many connections can be pooled per host. Default: 64.

*connection-ttl-millis*::
Maximum connection time to live in milliseconds. Default: Not set.

*max-connection-idle-time-millis*::
Maximum time an idle connection stays in the connection pool, in milliseconds. Idle connections will be removed from the pool by a background cleaner thread. Set to -1 to disable this check. Default: 900000.

*disable-cookies*::

> Enable or disable caching of cookies. Default: true.

Reviewer: Wonder why we have cookies enabled to be honest, that should probably not be enabled as we're not doing calls from a user-agent and shouldn't need/support cookies

Author: I don't know why, I just looked at https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/blob/main/services/src/main/java/org/keycloak/connections/httpclient/DefaultHttpClientFactory.java#L143-L157 for the defaults and added them. @pedroigor wdyt, change this?

Author: re-reading this: actually, cookies are disabled by default bc. this is not "enable-cookies=true", but "disable-cookies=true". 🙈

*client-keystore*::
File path to a Java keystore file. This keystore contains client certificates for two-way SSL.

*client-keystore-password*::
Password for the client keystore. REQUIRED, when `client-keystore` ist set.

*client-key-password*::

> Password for the client's private key. REQUIRED, when client-keystore is set.

Reviewer: I thought this is supposed to use the truststore, and not have to be configured separately

*proxy-mappings*::
Specify proxy configurations for outgoing HTTP requests. See the section on Proxy Mappings for Outgoing HTTP Requests for more details.

*disable-trust-manager*::

> If an outgoing request requires HTTPS and this config option is set to true you do not have to specify a truststore. This setting should only be used during development and *never in production* as it will disable verification of SSL certificates. Default: false.

Reviewer: Same as above, I think this is actually configured globally through the truststore

To determine the proxy for an outgoing HTTP request, the target hostname is matched against all configured hostname patterns. The proxy-uri of the first matching pattern will be used. If none of the configured patterns match for the hostname, no proxy is used.

When your proxy server requires authentication, include the proxy user’s credentials in the format `username:password@`. For example:

[source]
----
.*\.(google|googleapis)\.com;http://proxyuser:password@www-proxy.acme.com:8080
----

The special value NO_PROXY for the proxy-uri can be used to indicate that no proxy should be used for hosts matching the associated hostname pattern. It is possible to specify a catch-all pattern at the end of the proxy-mappings to define a default proxy for all outgoing requests.

.Example regular expressions for proxy-mapping:
[source]
----
# All requests to Google APIs use http://www-proxy.acme.com:8080 as proxy
.*\.(google|googleapis)\.com;http://www-proxy.acme.com:8080

# All requests to internal systems use no proxy
.*\.acme\.com;NO_PROXY

# All other requests use http://fallback:8080 as proxy
.*;http://fallback:8080
----

> == Outgoing HTTPS request truststore

Reviewer: Shouldn't this really be part of a "truststore" guide?
